# Credit_Risk_Analysis_UW
Financial institutions used credit risk analysis models to determine the probability of default of a potential borrower. The models provide information on the level of a borrower’s credit risk at any time. If the lender fails to detect the credit risk in advance, it exposes them to the risk of default and loss of funds. Lenders rely on the validation provided by credit risk analysis models to make key lending decisions on whether to extend credit to the borrower and the credit to be charged. Credit default risk occurs when the borrower is unable to pay the loan obligation in full or when the borrower is already 90 days past the due date of the loan repayment. The credit default risk may affect all credit-sensitive financial transactions such as loans, bonds, securities, and derivatives. The level of default risk can change due to a broader economic change. It can also be due because of a change in a borrower’s economic situation, such as increased competition or recession, which can affect the company’s ability to set aside principal and interest payments on the loan. The data is related with credit risk analysis. Credit default risk is the risk that a lender takes the chance that a borrower fails to make required payments of the loan. The classification goal is to predict the loan defaults (variable loan_status) on 32,576 loans and 12 benchmarks.  Defaulting on a loan happens when repayments are not made for a certain period. When a loan defaults, it is sent to a debt collection agency whose job is to contact the borrower and receive the unpaid funds. Defaulting will drastically reduce your credit score, impact your ability to receive future credit, and can lead to the seizure of personal property. If you cannot make payments on time, it is important to contact your lender or loan servicer to discuss restructuring your loan terms. In this project, it is going to be predict if lender have loan default or not in the payment with binary classification models. 21% of data have positive (1 – have default) output class and 79% of data have negative (0 – do not have default) class. Because of output data is imbalanced, this project can be called as an anomaly detection project and be a tool used to determine the probability of default of a potential borrower.
